To start off with, could you give me some
information about where you were born and when?
Yes, Enid, Oklahoma, January 18th, 1939. My
parents were both involved in the war. My father
graduated from Enid Flying School with Advanced
Air Force Base. He was killed as a B-17 pilot in
World War II in England in 1944. My mother flew with
Amelia Earhart's WASP, so she was gone. My
grandparents raised me. I attended schools in
Enid until I was having extreme difficulty
growing up like most young men in about the ninth
grade. Unlike a lot of young men, my father left me
$10,000 insurance when he was killed. That's what
the government paid then for your life. And I
looked through Ladies Home Journal. I saw a lot of
advertisements for preparatory schools. I wrote
off to them, even though I was failing in the ninth
grade, and received brochures back. I don't know
why they accepted me, but I went to Fork Union
Military Academy in Virginia from Oklahoma and
did very well there. Whatever I may become, I have
to give thanks to them because they certainly
provided the foundation. I had an appointment to
West Point since that was what I went to Fork Union
for. I came back to Oklahoma, having graduated in
the summer of 57, and applied for Texas A&M
because, very frankly, I was burned out on gray,
stiff wool uniforms. And I just couldn't see
myself starting over another four years that way.
The Texas A&M Corps, as I remember in those days,
had almost 6,000. was one of the most famous corps
in the United States. And I decided I want to be a
part of the best. That's why I applied. But I was
really a young man rolling around looking for a
hole to fall into. And before I could get down here
at Texas A&M, I went over and joined the
paratroops. And that was in August of 1957.
even with all my military training the fact that
i've probably forgotten more about some of the
weapons having been trained in the rotc program
and some of the sergeants for example my drill
sergeant had been a locomotive engineer and knew
nothing about what we were doing and i was always a
trainee platoon sergeant in my individual and
advanced training i was court-martialed twice in
the first eight weeks
so i got kind of started off on a bad foot even though
At the end of the first eight weeks, the command
wanted to send me to OCS. I refused to go because I
wanted to be in Special Forces, more than I wanted
to be an officer. So I ended up in Special Forces at
Fort Bragg as a demolitionist. And the only reason
I really became a Ranger, or became an officer, is
because I wanted to be a Ranger. And I kept applying
for Ranger training, and Special Forces didn't
receive Ranger training those days, since we got
it as part of our normal day-to-day duties.
Finally, Sergeant Ortiz, the 77th, said, Bo, if
you want to go to Ranger school, you got to be a
second lieutenant. I said, well, make me a second
lieutenant. So he gave me the forms for OCS. I
filled them out. I went to OCS. I went to Ranger
training. And following that, I found out
something. I couldn't get back in Special Forces
because there were no second lieutenants in
Special Forces. That's all I really cared about
was being there. So after I made first lieutenant,
I went back to Special Forces. And then in 1964, I
went to Vietnam and served four years in Vietnam.
My jobs included being the chief of
reconnaissance and the intelligence officer for
Project Delta, which at that time was the only one
of the super secret organizations that was in
operation. Our job was to go into denied areas and
obtain intelligence. Following that, I
organized at the direction of General
Westmoreland the first American commanded
guerrilla force. And it was supposed to have been a
volunteer operation where once we tested it, we
would all get our choice of assignments. We know
how that works. If you're successful, they want
you to stay together for one more, for one more, for
one more. So four operations later, we had finally
completed our guerrilla mission. It was during
that time We recovered the U-2 that General Russ
Mullen writes about in his book, A Soldier
Reports. That was just one of our training
missions. Following that, General Wyatt asked me
to form a unit that could do a myriad of special
activities. For example, blowing up bridges at
the Air Force where it was having difficult
hitting, raiding enemy headquarters. Gorillas
are two and a half miles an hour. They're limited by
foot power. And they don't travel very fast.
They're not very responsive. Plus, we couldn't
keep our prisoners alive. And they wanted
prisoners from various areas. So we restructured
the guerrilla command into what was called a
special task force B-36. And I formed that. As
cannon fodder, I required five Americans from
each of the infantry divisions, five LURPs. The
general wanted to know if I wanted sergeants. They
were airborne ranger. And I said, no, because the
division commanders will never give them up.
Those are their prized people. I said, I just want
somebody who is long-range reconnaissance
patrol qualified. Part of my Delta duties was to
train LRPS. And so I was a chief instructor at the
Rekondo School in Vietnam until we formed the
guerrilla command. B-36 was very successful at
what we did. it was at the end of four years i had just
put in for an extension leave i was working for
general wyatt on special operations and i went to
him with a proposal because i was using cambodians
i didn't speak cambodia and our missions were
extremely high visibility i wanted to obtain a
force that i could communicate with because
frequently more fire came from behind us than came
from the front of us meaning the cambodes that
followed you directly behind you were fine but
those on the flanks often were behind you and
didn't know what was going on so you had as much
danger of being shot from the rear as you did in the
front in many cases so i asked him if i could have the
prisoners out of long been jail since they their
lives were basically finished And in about 30 or 60
days, I could train them as guerrillas. And they
spoke English. And we could probably have
increased our productivity some 300, 400%. It was
at that time that Wyatt changed my mind and showed
me the light about Vietnam. He said, quote, Bo,
stop trying to win the war. You're not going to win
it. I'm not going to win it. Use this war to benefit
your career. He said, be ahead of your
contemporaries. Come up on the general staff.
I'll give you a job here. Use the war to get your
promotions earlier than those that aren't over
here. And it just thunderstruck me because we were
in the field dying and trying. And I said to him,
yes, sir, I know that I can't win the war by myself,
and even you as the daddy rabbit can't win it. But if
we don't try every day as hard as we can, the thing
will never be over. But I realized then that he had,
being the commander, he knew things that I didn't
know. There was no intent of winning that war. And I
decided instantly that I would not be responsible
for one life, one limb, one liberty being lost
again. So I left Vietnam and came back to the United
States very disillusioned. And it's ironic,
because over my headquarters, some of my
sergeants had placed this plaque that we took with
us, my headquarters, wherever we happened to set
up in the jungle. But it had four lines. The first
line said, we come because we believe. And that's
true. We were all there because we believed in what
we were doing. The second line said, we leave
because we're disillusioned. And that's
precisely what I did. The third line, I almost
succumbed to, too. It said, we return because
we're lost. And the last line said, we die because
we're committed. And that is exactly what
happened to many of those brave soldiers there who
stayed with me over those periods of time. They'd
get disillusioned. They'd go home. Next thing you
know, here they'd be back again. The next thing you
know, they're in a body bag. And I almost
succumbed. fit that scenario myself. When you
come back from the war, what does the Army do with
you? Most 19-year-old kids who came back, and
that's what the average age was in Vietnam, flew.
It took them 19 hours to get in the combat zone to
Travis Air Force Base. When they got there, they
were given a piece of paper and said, thank you,
patted on the ass, and left to figure out what had
happened to them for the last year. And in that very
traumatic part of their life. When most kids were
going to trade school, going to college, or
figuring out what they wanted to be when they grow
up, these kids were over there watching their
friends get their heads blown off. And it affects
you, especially at that young age. I was a
professional, had been through every combat
school that the military had when I went there. I
was prepared for Vietnam, except I hadn't had that
acid test. I craved it. I was there because I should
have been there. and because I wanted to be there.
At any rate,
I was really affected at four years of doing
nothing but killing the enemy every day. It's a
very, for lack of a better term, fearful when I
thought about coming back to the United States.
What do those people have in common with me? What is
my role there? Who am I there? I knew who I was in
Vietnam. I knew what my role was. It was very clear.
What am I going to do in the United States? How do I
relate? Because to me that was the unreal world. We
were committed in Vietnam, committed to winning
that war, and whatever that meant. So when I came
back, the Army was very good to me. They first of all
sent me to a year and a half of Chinese language
school. God knows that was the hardest thing that
I've ever done. I guess for damn near 18 hours a day,
because that's what it takes to study Chinese.
trying to defuse me, bring my RPMs down from red
line to idle. And following that, I went to Command
General Staff College. I graduated, honored
graduate of the Command General Staff College.
When I finished that, again, I applied for duty in
Vietnam. And my best friend, who will be the chief
of staff in the Army someday, said, Bo, please
don't go back there. And I see now that it perfectly
met that equation. We returned because we're
lost. And I said, no, I've got to go back over there.
As long as that war is there, I cannot have let my
friends have died in vain. We must win that war. He
talked me out of that. He said, Bo, that's crap.
Stay here. You're only going to lose over there.
And I listened to him. I listened to him again when
he told me to marry the wife that I have now. And he
was right about that, too. So anyway, the Army sent
me to school, having gone through about three
years of defusing. But even when I was in the
Command General Staff College, I, at nighttime,
would shoot the lights out in the town of
Leavenworth. I'm sure the prison geared up 100
times when I would come home at night. Tucson,
Arizona didn't have very many streetlights in it.
I didn't put bullet holes through. For about three
years as a field grade officer, I was doing things
like that because it was still the year of the gun.
And people just tolerated me. I guess I never had
any trouble with anybody. I threw colonels over
the bar at Fort Leavenworth. It was just the nature
of the beast then. So... And then ironically
enough I was given a job on the art. Well, I was
supposed to go with Nixon to China Because he was
when he made his trip over there. He was going over
to establish a US mission He thought but the
Chinese weren't ready for that yet So I was
selected as because they didn't have an old seven
which was a Brigadier General. They were looking
for that spoke Chinese they tagged me to go and Then
it fell apart because the Chinese weren't going to
cooperate with Nixon that quickly As a result, I
said, what do I do now? I had jobs because I had
graduated high in the CNGS, any place I wanted it. I
ended up on the Army General Staff working for
General Westmoreland. He said he wanted someone
as a spokesman for the Army who had decorations on
their chest and not a journalist. And his job, even
though he hated it at that time, he directly
opposed it, was to sell the Modern Volunteer Army.
And it was my job to act as as his spokesman in doing
that. I believed in it, because I didn't want
anything but volunteers around me. But he showed
me where I was very tunnel visioned. And where the
modern volunteer army doesn't work, we should
have the draft. And he's right, because we have cut
out that cross-section of American society that
keeps America interested in what the military is
doing and keeps the army a part of society instead
of apart from it. So at any rate, at that time,
General Abrams came on board. And Abrams hated
special forces. And so he took one look at me and
said, I've got nothing to say to you. And a good
friend of mine, General Seidel, asked me, he said,
Bo, how would you like to go to school? So again,
when they don't have anything for a soldier to do,
they send him to school. As a result, I became
highly degreed as a victim of circumstance, and I
really haven't used any of the scholastic talents
other than the bits of trivia that help you in your
day-to-day life.
After finishing the school, I was selected to go
down and command the Special Forces in Panama, and
I did that for two years. It was there that General
Harold R. Aaron, who was a major general then,
first contacted me. He was the chief of military
intelligence then. He came to Panama and he asked
me to think about how we might be able to gain
information on American POWs in Southeast Asia.
It totally dumbfounded me because I was a
commander of special forces in Panama. I was
concerned only about Latin America, the
strategic protection of the Canal Zone, and all
this other kind of crap. He was talking about last
life, you know, Vietnam. And I remember when he
left, I told my intelligence officer, Randy
Young, the general's clutches slipping. You
know, he's back in Vietnam. I was inexplicably
transferred to the Office of the Secretary of
Defense, much against General McAuliffe, who was
the sink south. Objections. He wanted me to stay
down there in Panama, but... OSD, somebody
pressed a button. I ended up going to the Defense
Security Assistance Agency as the Congressional
Relations Chief. And General Fish was my
commander there. When I said, what the hell am I
doing in Washington, D.C. as Congressional
Relations? I'm a jungle fighter. And he said, Bo,
you'll find your assignment here is much like that
that you're used to, the jungles of Washington.
are just different in that they're concrete, but
they're still insidious, and they're still
dangerous, and we need your kind of skills here.
The committee that I worked with was a foreign
relations committee, both in the House and the
Senate. They have oversight for the POW issue. It
was in October of 1978 when Aaron came to me. Now
he's a lieutenant general, and the number two man
in the Defense Intelligence Agency said, Bo,
we've got overwhelming evidence that Americans
are still being held. We'd like you to consider
retirement so that you can work through the
private sector because the Carter
administration has politically handcuffed us
from doing anything about the POW issue. I was to
take a hiatus in my military career. It didn't turn
out that way. It's been five years. I will not go
back in uniform. I don't think. The reason the FBI
asked me in January of 1983, Bo, are you ready to
come back in uniform now? I said, no. He said, why? I
said, because the job's not over. And I caveated
that further by saying, I don't think I will
either. And the guy says, why not? Because at the
time of my retirement, I was at the very good times
of your career. You work hard in the Army to finally
get someplace. And I had finally gotten to the
point where the Army was going to be fun for me. and
then to give it up right at that time didn't make
sense matter of fact army times ran a big front page
article when i retired that said it was a surprise
it was and nobody believed the reasons i gave and
they were right but i couldn't tell them why i
retired at that time bottom line is that it is far
more important that this issue be resolved
correctly for the good of the nation than it is for
any one person to have fun with the Army. And for
that reason, as an urge in my conscience, I cannot
quit until this thing is resolved
satisfactorily. I will not quit. So far I've had no
one ask me to quit. I think that secretly each one of
the people in the bureaucracy hopes that we will
succeed. I know that not so secretly, many people
in the military, especially Fort Bragg, my
contemporaries, embrace me when I go to see them in
the Pentagon, are praying that we will be
successful because they know what we're doing is
right. So that's without stopping. a capsule of
what's gone down go ahead and get specific now okay
when you were in vietnam in 1964 and you were doing
your specific years this specific mission down
there um what positive advantages came about
through being involved with all these ambushes
and attacks what what advantages do you feel the
advantage yeah the advantage was that uh It taught
me lessons about life that you'll never learn in
the philosophy or theology books. You learn what
life is about. Many of the parables that you read in
the Bible become clear to you once you have
experienced the realities of snuffing out human
life with a mere pound and a half's pressure
trigger or claymore mine you realize and I knew a
couple of times that I was I was approaching
insanity over there from that point of view when
suddenly you would see a man that was a living human
being who had a family just like yours who had
aspirations and hope for life One moment when
you're in ambush, he is there thinking, living,
feeling, and the next moment he's garbage, laying
along the trail. It makes you realize that
something is not right about it. And as a soldier,
you're doing your job. Thank God, because when I
finished the war, when I left, I had a terrible
time, as I said, coming back to the United States,
trying to find My handhold here. One of the first
things I did is I came back and I went home to Tucson,
Arizona, where my mother then lived, and tried to
come to grips before my language school started. I
had about a month and a half. I ended up going up on a
mountain in northern Mexico by myself because
there was nobody here who could help me. Nobody
here knew what my problem was. Nobody had ever been
a part of it. I married a Chinese girl and brought
her back with me, a Chinese ethnic, Vietnamese
origin, because she was the only one who knew who I
was. She was my identity. She knew how hard we had
tried. She knew my friends who had died. I needed
her as my ID card. It didn't work out, even though I
did get two wonderful kids from her. But I went up on
the mountain to find out, one, if there was a chance
that I had a life, I was raised in Pentecostal
churches in Oklahoma, and you're not supposed to
kill people, let alone hundreds of them. And you
have to reconcile yourself. When I went up there, I
took one bullet in my 9mm, not to protect me against
the wolves, because certainly if they were going
to eat you, they were going to eat you. But as a final
determiner, If I couldn't have reconciled myself
and saw that I do have a good life to live, then I
would have started as quickly as I could whatever
comes after. The fact is that a lot of things did
come very clear to me, I had to answer the questions
Why do people die like that? Is it all right for a
soldier to take those lives? Why do babies have to
die? There are all kinds of those questions that
many Vietnam vets had to answer. I was lucky enough
because I had the intelligence. I went up there. I
got those answers. When I came down, I was a whole
human being again. I was still pretty frisky, like
I say. I shot out a lot of streetlights. I threw a lot
of people over the bars, but I was settled in my
life. That saved me. So Vietnam gave me a positive
thing in that it gave me the secret to life, and that
is a paradox. Many things are paradoxes about
combat. If you're going to live, you must choose
the road to death. That may not sound right. But it
simply means if you're going to live, you can't be
thinking about home. You can't be thinking about
wife, family, D-Rose. Before I would go on a
mission, I would see myself being killed in every
conceivable way. That way I had already died by
parachute crashing into the trees or into a band of
cobras or being blown apart as I hung in the trees by
the enemy machine gunner. Having already died
those ways, then there's no place for the enemy's
bullet. And so when you go into combat, you have
chosen the road to death. You're much more alert.
Hopefully the enemy is thinking about home or what
he's going to do when he gets back. And in that
moment is when the bullet enters his brain and
stops his life. So there are many of those
paradoxes, but yes, there are. I gained the secret
of life through learning about death. What
specifically did you do in Vietnam, and what unit
were you in? Okay, to give you specifics, when I
first went over there, I organized a camp called
Sui Da. Sui Da means Rock Creek. It's next to Nui Ba
Den Mountain, which is very famous in Vietnam as a
shrine. Nui Ba Den means the Black Virgin
Mountain. My unit was called A322. Later, I went to
Delta Project as the first officer who was the
reconnaissance chief, and I was called
Detachment B-52, and I was the reconnaissance
chief and the intelligence officer for Project
Delta. Then I was the chief instructor of the McVie
Recondo School. Following that, I formed The
guerrilla task force called 957. That means 21 as
blackjack as a winner. That's why it came about
like that. Later, it turned into Detachment B-36,
Special Task Force B-36. And later, that turned
into the 3rd Mobile Strike Command. If you look in
the lineage of Vietnam, I formed each one of those
units. And then after they were formed, I
eventually left them. I left the 3rd Mobile Strike
Command after becoming disillusioned in
November of 1968.
And I was the commander of each one of them. Each one
of them contained American troops. I had one of the
very unique commands in Vietnam. In B-36, for
example, I had
five companies of Chinese that we used as security
forces. I had eight companies of Cambodians that
we used as guerrilla forces. I had about 50
American special forces that made up special
teams. And I had five LURPs from each infantry
division that made up my reconnaissance unit. And
I had a team of SAS from the Australians. So I had a
real cross-section of everybody there. So that's
what it was all about. What was the motivation,
your motivation to your valor in Vietnam in which
you received all these 60 decorations? Just doing
the job. It's very hard for Special Forces to be
decorated in Vietnam. The reason is because in the
divisions, a two-star general is authorized to
give up to a silver star. We had no two-star
generals in Special Forces. So if we were going to
get a decoration, General Westmoreland had to
give it. General Westmoreland didn't have much
time, being the daddy rabbit, to deal with Special
Forces. So much of the things that Special Forces
did went totally unsung. For example, we got
nothing for recovering the U-2. You'd have
thought that would have been a big deal. It was big
enough for him to single it out as the example of the
American soldier, but no decorations were given
for that U-2 operation. Nobody thinks about the
soldier when he's doing his job. we were just there
doing the job trying to win the war and the
decorations that i received came from generals
that we worked for because they were astounded by
our work general hay commanding general first
division for example gave me two silver stars in in
one day and said bo i wish that there was some higher
decoration we could give your command he lined my
whole command up and awarded silver stars He said,
but this is the highest award I can give you. He
says, what you people are doing is amazing. I don't
know how you do that. He said, what do you eat, for
example? I pulled out a package of indigenous
ration, which was dried rice and minnows. He said,
God, we could never feed Americans that. But see,
he forgets that special forces are Americans,
too. So the lines of our motto, We came because we
believed. We were there because we believed in
each other. And once you start it, it is a
continuous cycle. How do you end it? We had to make
sure, it seemed to me, that the men who had
sacrificed their life, their limbs, their
liberties, didn't do so in vain. That meant one
thing, victory. There is no in-between. It's
victory or it's defeat. And I was resolved to stay
there the duration, plus six, whatever that
meant. One of the big mistakes we made in Vietnam
was that we sent generals there for one year. And a
general going there for one year figured, geez, if
I don't do anything, maybe I won't do anything
wrong. And the generals should have all gone
there, like we did in World War II. You come home
when the job is done. But we were trying to get
everybody through the combat experience.
Everybody came over there looking to enhance
their career by spending one year in a combat zone.
And then, like General Wyant said, using it as part
of your ticket punching to get ahead of your
contemporaries. So I had all my tickets punched. I
got advanced degrees. I've been on the Army
general staff, the Office of the Secretary of
Defense staff, all of the Army schools where I
graduated, honored graduate from. And even all
that ticket punching isn't enough to override my
conscience, because I know what must be done in
this case. And I was wrong about Vietnam. We
shouldn't have been there. being there we should
have won it and it was only when i realized that was
impossible that i was not going to continue to
throw good energy after bad and i quit
You just mentioned the generals. If we could do it
all over again, what do you feel the United States
should do to win the war? Well, I think the first
thing is the United States should not have fought a
war in the first place. I think the United States
has an obligation to wake up. I'm so damn mad at the
American people because we have become a nation of
spectators. We lay back and we love to be
entertained, but we've forgotten and we
criticize the government. But the government is
of the people, by the people, and for the people.
And we forget that. Those people working in
Washington, D.C. are elected by us and work for us.
If they do something wrong, damn it, it's our
fault. And participative government has become a
thing of the past. And so if we educate ourselves,
we are obligated as a nation to know what the hell is
going on. If we would have done our homework about
Vietnam, we would have found out that we should
have never been there in the first place. In 1944,
Ho Chi Minh embraced us. The OSS trained Ho Chi
Minh. We gave him equipment. He loved the
Americans. The war was won in 1945. Instead of the
United States taking over the... the transition
of government in Southeast Asia, they turned it
over to the British because our primary effort was
in Japan and in Europe. When the British took over,
it was decided for some moment of insanity that we
would give the control of Southeast Asia back to
the French. Ho Chi Minh then tapped us on the
shoulder and says, what are you doing? Are you
going to stand by and let them recolonize our
countries? We should have our independence. The
Japanese gave us the independence, for Christ's
sake. But the United States would not intervene.
We didn't even weigh in with the British in De
Gaulle about that. We just turned our head away
from Ho Chi Minh and said, sorry, we can't hear you,
Ho. As a result, the French took over again. As a
result, Ho Chi Minh begged us for support. We
wouldn't give it to him. So he went to the people who
would. He hated the Soviets, but they gave him the
support. He fought the French, and he defeated
them. And then here we come, right in their wake. If
we would have done our homework and been educated,
we would have never sent a steel helmet to Vietnam
anyway. Special forces should have gone because
that's the way to do it. We do it in a very
low-profile, professional manner, small
groups. I should have been in Vietnam, but 56,000
19-year-olds should not have been that lost their
life because a white face under a steel helmet
gives every reason for a good, loyal Vietnamese,
no matter where he is, to rally around the flag to
get the hated Yankee out of his country. I was the
intelligence officer for Delta Project. I saw
that the North Vietnamese didn't start coming
into the South until the Marines came over, until
the Big Red One came over. When those steel helmets
started arriving, the North Vietnamese built up
in like numbers, and so began the Vietnam War. I
don't think that would have happened. we wouldn't
have sent those 19 year olds and it was a political
war soldiers should not fight political wars
politicians should when the politicians are not
going to fight a political war then you fight a
military war we could have won that war easily but
we didn't because it wasn't a military victory we
were interested in it was a political victory How
did you feel coming back to the United States with
the resentment against the war? I didn't care
about that. It's a free country. And I almost got
angry one day. I was in a school auditorium. And
when we stood to say the Pledge of Allegiance to the
flag, there was a black kid sitting directly in
front of me who was long and gangly, about 6'5",
obviously a young kid. And he refused to stand up.
For a moment, I felt like pumping him on the back of
his head because his mother was there and she was
trying to get him to stand up. He wouldn't do it.
Then I suddenly realized this is what we fight and
die for. So this scumbag can sit here and act like an
asshole. And I don't care. The dissenters were
right, but for all the wrong reasons. The people
who ran off to Canada were right, but for all the
wrong reasons. They shouldn't have done it then.
They should have spoken with one voice like the
enemy did. But they may have seen something that I
didn't see. Muhammad Ali, he went with his
conscience. He did what I think is probably right.
He did it the right way. He says, I'm not going to
fight. But he didn't run off to Canada either. The
fact is that our country was wrong. But at that
time, we didn't know that. And past is always
prologue and it's always 20-20 hindsight. But We
didn't know that we were wrong then. So the
dissenters were wrong. The protesters were
wrong. They were right in the end, but they were
right
for the wrong reasons. But I didn't care about
them. Nobody ever bothered me. And it's funny, in
the book General Westmoreland wrote, the
Pentagon advised me to refuse to allow him to use
that story And they said the reason was because a
lot of nuts were going to look me up, probably. But
nobody ever had. I think it's because they think
I'll probably kill them. War-crazed Vietnam vet.
In all my POW efforts, some nice guy saved a movie
star's life in Hollywood from being mugged. The
guy had to change his phone to move out of town
because he got so many death threats. I've never
gotten one nut call on the phone. I've never gotten
one letter that was a nut letter. I think it's
because, I don't know why, maybe there's the aura,
a threat, that they think I'll track them down or
something. In San Francisco, people talk bad
about the demonstrations there. I never bought a
meal in San Francisco. When I came home from
Vietnam, we were always in uniform. I used to eat
breakfast there, the biggest breakfast I could
get. And that was normally when we went over, ate
breakfast. When I came back, it was usually in the
evening. I'd eat supper there. never every time i
would eat i would finish i'd get ready to pay and the
waitress would tell me sir your meal has already
been paid for and when i would ask and this happened
god i was back across the river about 10 times
because six months was each extension that you
took and i was there for four years she would say sir
your meal has already been paid for it was always
anonymous So San Francisco was beautiful to me. I
went to Las Vegas because I wanted to see a show one
time when I'd come home to Vietnam. I didn't
realize you had to have tickets months in advance.
When I got there with my family, there was a long
line, and then there was a no line. So I went up to the
no line because I thought the long line was to buy
tickets. It wasn't. The long line was people
already had tickets. The no line was people to buy
them, but it was for, like, next year. But the
maitre d' asked me. He says, you just come back from
Vietnam? And I said, yes. He said, just a minute. He
took me and my family down. We sat right in the front
row. We got everything on the house. So I was always
treated with great respect as a soldier. I never
had none of the negative experiences that I hear
other people relate. And I think maybe it's your
attitude. Who would have dared to have chastised
me to my face? Maybe I was a crazed Vietnam veteran.
Maybe I would have destroyed them. I don't know.
Whatever it is, it didn't happen. So I didn't care
about the protesters. I thought it was kind of
humorous. When I worked on Army General Staff, I
would watch the hippies, and they were totally
disorganized. Thousands of them would form.
Literally, the third human seed would form
outside of the Pentagon. Then they would start
running for the Pentagon. But they started
running way too far back. I knew they'd never make
it. They were all going to be tired out by the time
they got to where the GSA police were. So here would
come the human sea, running just like they
probably did at the Battle of Bull Run over the
green plains of the Pentagon. Then out from the
side of the Pentagon would ride the park police
with their horses, tear gas, and their billy
clubs. And God, it was hair, eyes, and teeth all
over the place. And what those poor hippies didn't
know was inside the Pentagon, you know, there was
another battalion of military police. They
didn't stand a chance from the beginning. And then
I used to laugh because they would chain
themselves at the door of the Pentagon. And in the
wintertime, it was always my suggestion that we
help them, that we put a set of handcuffs on them,
because what would happen when they got cold,
they'd unlock the chains and they'd go get warm. So
I said, let's just put our own handcuffs on them as
long as they're chained and let them stay
overnight maybe. When I went to the American
University, I silently protested myself. I went
to the American University, and it was funny. I got
two master's degrees there, one by being a victim
of a service, one was because of Abraham. The other
was I finished school, and I never paid much
attention to the regulations, so I didn't check in
with the Army all the time. When I graduated, they
didn't know I was going to graduate, so they had no
job for me. So I had to go back for another year and
take another sequence. While I was there, my
silent protest was that I would, being an
intelligence officer, I've been trained in both
safe lock manipulation and conventional locks. I
would change the locks on some of the hippies while
they were demonstrating. I'd change the locks on
their bicycles. and just change them around. And
then until I had to go to class, I'd sit and watch
them become frustrated and furious because the
combination wasn't working or the key wouldn't
work in their lock. I don't know what they ever did.
They'd chain them up real good, and I'd chain the
lock around. That's my way of protesting what they
were doing. But I never had any vindictiveness. I
didn't give a damn about that. Why did you get
involved with your mission in 1972 when you were
assigned to Panama to train Latin American
soldiers in the special forces techniques? Yeah,
it was in 72. That's a wrong thing. I went to Panama
in 1975. I returned in 1977. I went there because
the Army selected me as a commander. of Special
Forces in Panama. It was that simple. And I must say
that before I went, because you've got to realize
I'd been on the Army General Staff, which was a puke
assignment. Before that, I'd been a Command
General of Staff, College of the University of
Nebraska, a year and a half of Chinese. You know, I
was academic. When I finally, my wife thought I was
a karate instructor, because if she never saw me in
a uniform, I went for two years to the American
University. My dad was fully paid by the service. I
told her, I said, I'm really a soldier. Someday I'm
going to have to go back to work. And I did. Before I
got ready to go to Panama, knowing what was down
there, I went back up on the mountain again and made
sure that that was exactly what I wanted to do. And I
was born to be a soldier. I don't know how many
lifetimes I've lived as a soldier, but that's what
my purpose is in this life. And so I took that
assignment. It was the best assignment in the
Army. And I enjoyed it. I did a damn good job down
there with it. And I look forward to doing it again
when I was reassigned to the Pentagon and would
have had I not been asked to retire. My next job
would have been the 10th Group Commander, which is
something I always wanted to do.
um what motivated you to get involved with the
powmia problem because i was asked by general
aaron and when i thought about it it was really it
was really shocking
and depressing jesus is it possible that this
great nation of ours could have for political
reasons let live americans dropped between the
cracks
and when i thought about it and having worked as a
chief of congressional relations i suddenly
realized you damn right it was possible and once
you get involved with it it's something you can't
put down for a long time i couldn't eat a meal i
couldn't go to sleep at night unless i thought
about the condition of those men after a while you
get fairly hardened to it I've been to Laos three
times now, setting up the rescue. We will rescue
them. We're going to do it soon. But it certainly is
possible. I used to not think that the president
even went to the bathroom. I thought he was totally
invulnerable to all of the human frailties.
That's wrong. He is only going to do what, like any
other servant, what we make him do. And that's why
the president has discovered POWs in 1983. Not
because they didn't know about them, but because
the American people has finally brought it to
national attention to the point where all the
politicians see they better start looking at it so
i got interested in it because i was invited i would
have loved to have forgotten about the vietnam war
i was very happy in panama i didn't even think about
vietnam and to revisit a lot of those experiences
was not pleasant for me And to, I don't want to lance
the festering wound of war that has been healing
for 10 years now. But if you must lance it to let it
heal cleanly, then let's lance it. This issue is
much like a cancer. The politicians are like
people who, even though the sickness has been
diagnosed, They don't want to hear it. They don't
want to treat it because the treatment is onerous
and very difficult. But it's a cancer that I think
can strangle our moral standards in this country.
If they strangle our moral standards, if it erodes
that underpinning, what's going to hold us up as a
country? So I think that it is so important that
like a patient who does have a cancer or sickness we
do whatever we have to do to treat it and to get well
and that's why i will as anyone who loves a relative
and i love this country i'm going to continue to
strive to persuade to do what i have to until we do
get well on this issue look at watergate if you
would have asked nixon he would have told you,
don't do this. As a matter of fact, he did tell us
that, because you're going to completely erode
the American image in the world. And it was a dark
period in our history to think that the president
was a crook and a liar. But you know something? We
emerged a better nation because of it. Now when you
travel overseas, foreigners are amazed that in
America not even the president can lie and get away
with it. And so it's going to be a dark time in our
history when we have to reopen the wounds of war in
Vietnam. But damn it, we're going to emerge a
stronger nation than we were before because of it.
Our moral backbone is going to be reinforced. And
we're going to be stronger because we did the right
thing instead of sticking our head in the sand and
letting the cancer eventually kill us. What do you
say to those critics that say that the government
should more or less take this job over and that
you're just a private citizen and you're just
trying to do your own thing and you're disturbing
international relations? First of all, I'm
bulletproof to all criticism because if you're
not in the arena getting bloodied and dirty, then
you don't count. If you're willing to get in the
arena, then...